SDC Tools Module Sprint 2 (#1227)
CodeYourFuture/curriculum: common-content/en/module/tools/head-and-tail/index.md

+++
title = "head and tail"
headless = true
time = 20

> facilitation = false

Author: https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/curriculum/pull/1318

emoji= "💻"
[objectives]
    1="Output the first 5 lines of a file using `head`"
    2="Output the last 5 lines of a file using `tail`"
    3="Output the five lines starting 10 lines into a file using `head` and `tail`"
+++

> 

Reviewer: ```mermaid
flowchart TD
    title["`
    🐵 
    +----------+
    file
    +----------+
    🐒
    `"]

    classDef default fill:none,stroke:none
```

`head` outputs lines (or bytes) from the start of a file. `tail` outputs lines (or bytes) from the end of a fail.

![Julia Evans' comic about head and tail](https://wizardzines.com/images/uploads/head-tail.png)

(Source, including text-only transcript: https://wizardzines.com/comics/head-tail/)

Learn about `head` and `tail` from their man pages (and the backlog exercises).

Imagine we have an input file which has 100 lines.

{{<multiple-choice
   delimiter="~"
   question="What would the command `head -n 8 input` output?"
   answers="The first 8 bytes of the file ~ The last 8 lines of the file. ~ The first 8 lines of the file."
   feedback="Not quite - are you confusing -n and -c? ~ Not quite - are you confusing head and tail? ~ Right! -n takes a number of lines to output, and head goes from the start of the file."
   correct="2" >}}

{{<multiple-choice
   delimiter="~"

>    question="What command could we write to skip the first three lines of the file, and then output the next 2 lines?"

Reviewer 2: On the fence about whether this is obvious from context, but option 1 seems like a bit of a trap given that a pipeline isn't mentioned in the question

```suggestion
   question="What command could we write and pipe that skips the first three lines of the file, and then outputs the next 2 lines?"
```
